we begin at this hour in the Middle East
Israel's military has said it's begun
ordering Palestinian civilians to leave
parts of Eastern Rafa ahead of a planned
operation in the southern Gaza City in
this video by the Israeli Defense Forces
they're urging those in eastern Rafa
close to the border with Israel to move
to what they call a humanitarian Zone in
the al- mawasi and KH Yunis areas the
IDF have said this is a limited
operation and should affect about
100,000 people Israel's Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu continues to insist
that a military operation in Rafa is
necessary to seek out remaining Hamas
Fighters despite widespread humanitarian
concern for those Sheltering there
western and Arab leaders have repeatedly
warned against such a wide ground
operation because of the prospect of
high numbers of Civilian casualties
meanwhile officials from Israel and its
closest Ally the US have been holding
meetings to discuss alternative more
focused plans it's not yet clear if the
new evacuation orders are part of those
well let's speak to James zelder who's a
spokesperson for the United Nations
Children's Fund also known as UNICEF
thanks very much indeed for for being
with us so tell us what you think the
impact will be of this
evacuation Lauren absolutely devastating
you have families in Rafa their coping
capacity has been smashed this is six
months of enduring this war moving many
times probably having lost a home
already they are children are
malnourished they've already been living
in conditions with you know one one
shower for three and a half thousand
people they're being told to move quote
unquote to a humanitarian Zone that's a
unilaterally declared humanitarian Zone
that's not a humanitarian Zone where
humanitarians have been able to provide
the services they need to so I've been
talking to colleagues and friends in
Rafa this morning and they they're
terrified I was speaking Lauren to a
young woman she's like I know this has
been coming I just don't know what to
pack they'll go to an area in the middle
Zone Lauren called der Bal where there
is literally raw seage in the streets or
maybe to alasi which is a beach same
story applies nowhere is safe but as
unbearable as this is it's happening and
and it's going to be horrific and is it
your understanding that there are only
specific areas that people have been
allowed to move to or can they can they
choose no there are specific areas
without a doubt partly they will have to
choose based on those people who have
the means to leave a lot of people have
injured children with them hospitals as
I've seen hospitals cannot cope with the
number of injuries there's a lot of
children who have had amputations who
are back living in tents those families
will find it hard to move but
geographically logistically no you still
can't a lot of families will not be able
to move to the north if they'd hoped to
car unus is impossible that's another
city bordering raer that is Rubble not a
little bit but Street after Street of
rubble so they'll be pushed into this
area called masasi Lauren which is a
Beach area it's sand it has next to no
sanitation or hygiene it's getting hot
right now in Gaza it's raining today but
it's getting hot so they'll be intense
side by side five or six times is the
population density of New York City but
all on the ground not a highrise to be
seen with no hospital care the last
remaining Hospital of size is in Rafa
European hospital so named because it
was donated by the people of Europe uh
it's got 20,000 people hiding there and
thousands more uh in care they will have
to move somewhere without the medical
care that they need tell us you said
that um the Israeli Army had set up
these areas without assistance from the
humanitarian community what can you now
do in terms of providing help if people
are moving is is there anything you can
do yeah it's it's a great question the
whole Aid operation has been so fragile
because of denials and restrictions and
insecurity and bombardments let's not
forget our our colleagues from the world
Central Kitchen who were killed a week
later a UNICEF vehicle come came under
Fire now of course that Crossing in Rafa
that is the lifeline of Aid if we are
going to get close to meeting the the
needs of people that Crossing will now
be closed for I don't know for how long
so no we have to be clear you can't
unilaterally declare a safe Zone firstly
because the other side won't be
considering it as that and secondly
because the United Nations needs time to
actually try and support a million or
two people I said this in November
UNICEF and the UN has said this Lauren
from the very start in November and
December this safe Zone narrative is
very dangerous because a safe Zone
legally must also provide water food
sanitation and protection these zones
don't have that for people and quite
frequently as the people in raffle will
tell you safe zones also get bombed
James Elder from UNICEF thank you very
much indeed for taking the time to talk
to us